18.	  Mother sat on a chair and had you sketch…
Parts: Father (Guy), Younger Mr Vincent (Sid)
Staging: Father, dressed in a suit, seated in an armchair drinking tea. Table next to him with tea set. Smaller chair in front of him.
Voice over: 	Now we’ve got rid of him let’s get back to the Briary Headmaster and find out how the prestigious school deals with the tricky topic of sex education. Mr Vincent, what is your general approach and how have you come to this?

Mr Vincent: 	(From backstage as voiceover) Well, we rely heavily on the parents. It’s not the sort of subject we feel we have to deal with. My father taught me everything I need to know, and it never did me any harm…

Roger is heard whistling All Things Bright and Beautiful offstage

Father: 	Is that you Roger?
(Roger enters in schoolboy outfit, carrying a pile of books tied up in a bundle)
Roger:  .          Yes Father!
Father:	There’s tea here, boy, if you want some
R:	That’s very kind of you sir, but I’m just in from rugger and rather grubby so I think I should have a bath first sir
F:	Well pour me a cup would you, old chap
R:	Certainly sir
(R busies himself with tea, milk and sugar)
F:	How was school today?
R:	Good thank you sir. Although I caught someone having a crafty smoke behind the wooden buildings and had to give him rather a ticking off. Filthy habit you know, sir.
F:	Filthy habit, Roger
R:	(Hands over the tea) There we are sir. Now if you’ll excuse me…
F:	Before you go, Roger, erm (gestures towards the chair)
R:	Ah, right (sits, looking nervous)
F:	Roger, er, your mother and I were er, having a bit of a chat today, and she thought it might be a good idea, er, if I were to have a bit of a chat, (pause) with you.
R:	A bit of chat, sir
F: 	(Fidgeting nervously) A bit of a chat, yes Roger, just, a bit of a chat.  
R:	What about, sir?
F:	Nothing to be worried about Roger, it's just that, erm, well to be perfectly frank, (pause) How old are you?
R:	Well to be perfectly frank, sir, I’m coming up to 18
F:	Just coming up to 18
R:	On the verge
F:	(Increasingly nervous) On the verge, yes. Well I thought it might be, quite a good idea for us to have a bit of a chat now, because, er, I remember from my own experience that when I was, you know, just, coming up to 18, 
R:	On the verge
F:	Yes on the verge, that I first began to take a serious interest in the, er the opposite, er, the opposite number. 
	(Roger now starting to squirm) 
F:	Now I don’t know, Roger, if you know anything about, er, the method, whereby you came to be, er, brought about.
R:	Well sir, some of the boys at school say some very filthy things about it sir
F:	This is what I was worried about, so I thought I’d have a bit of a chat, and explain, absolutely frankly, and openly, er, the method whereby you, and everybody else in this world, er, came to be. 
(Long pause, much squirming and shifting on chairs from both)
Roger, In order...
(Roger takes of his cap nervously and wipes his forehead)
In order for you to be, brought about, it was necessary, for your mother and I, to do something
(Roger really sweating now)
In particular, it was necessary for your mother, your mother, to sit on a chair. To sit on a chair which I had recently vacated, and which was still warm. From my body.
And then, something very mysterious, rather wonderful, and beautiful happened, and sure enough, four years later, you were born. 
(Roger is really looking nervous)
(Father getting quite animated)
Now Roger, there is nothing unhealthy about this, nothing unnatural. It’s a beautiful thing in the right hands and there’s no need to think less of your mother because of it. She had to do it, she did it, and here you are. (Sits back in relief)
R:	Well sir, it's very kind of you to tell me. There is one thing that slightly alarms me. I was sitting in this very chair yesterday sir (stand up looking at chair) and I vacated it and the cat sat on it whilst it was still warm (gestures to seat). Should we have it destroyed?
F:	It’s a lovely chair, Roger
R:	No, the cat, sir.
F:	Destroy…oh no, Roger, you don’t understand. This thing of which I speak can only happen between two people who are married. And you are not married.
R:	(Looking relieved) Not yet anyway!
F:	Not to the cat, at any rate. Well Roger, now you have this knowledge about chairs and warmth, I hope you’ll use it wisely. And take no notice of your schoolfriends or what Uncle Bertie may say.
R:	Dirty Uncle Bertie, they call him at school
F:	Dirty Uncle Bertie and they are right Roger. Your Uncle Bertie is a dirty, dirty man. He’s been living with us now for 40 years, and it does seem a day to long. You know, if it hadn’t been for you Mother, Roger, I don’t know where we would have been. She’s the only person who can really cope with Uncle Bertie, the only person who can deal with him I don’t know if you realise this Roger, but your mother even has to sleep in the same bed as Uncle Bertie to prevent him getting up to anything in the night. If only there were more people like your mother, Roger. (Staring into space)
R:	Well I’m very pleased that you told me this Father, and I don’t have to believe all those filthy things that the boys at school say. Why, only yesterday, Uncle Bertie said to me...
F:	Take no notice of Uncle Bertie! He’s a sick man, and we should feel sorry for him. 
R:	Well, I’ll try sir. Shall I take a cup of tea up to Mother? 
F:	I wouldn’t do that, Roger. She’s upstairs at the moment, “coping” with Uncle Bertie.
R:	Poor Uncle Bertie
F:	Yes. Poor Uncle Bertie.
Mother:	Oh! Bertie
R+G together:	Poor Uncle Bertie
Lighting: (Lights off)
Staging: and Curtain
Staging: Curtains Open

Mark: Sid and Guy Ladies and Gentlemen!
Sound: School Bell Rings
